Congratulations! You've made it
to the end of this section.
You've made so
much progress in your security journey.
Let's review what we learned.
You learned all about how to read and
analyze logs.
You examined how log files are created and
used for analysis.
You also compared different
types of common log formats and
learned how to read them.
You extended your understanding on
intrusion detection systems by comparing
network-based systems and
host-based systems.
You also learned how to
interpret signatures.
You examined how signatures are written
and also how they detect, log, and
alert on intrusions.
You interacted with Suricata in the command line
to examine and interpret signatures and
alerts.
Lastly, you learned how to search in
SIEM tools like Splunk and Chronicle.
You learned about the importance of
crafting tailored queries to locate events.
At the forefront of incident response,
monitoring and
analyzing network traffic for indicators
of compromise is one of the primary goals.
Being able to perform in-depth log
analysis and knowing how to read and
write signatures and
how to access log data are all skills
that you'll use as a security analyst.